Demand responsive transit systems with time-dependent demand: User equilibrium, system optimum, and management strategy
Author links open overlay panel
Mahyar Amirgholy
, 
Eric J. Gonzales

Show more

Add to Mendeley

Share

Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2015.11.006
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Analytical model for agency cost of demand responsive transit (DRT) operations.
•
User cost for DRT includes waiting for pick-up, travel time, and schedule penalty.
•
Total cost minimized by changing capacity, waiting users, and demand distribution.
•
User equilibrium, system optimum, and demand management strategies are identified.
•
Dynamics of DRT operations differ from bottleneck but optimal prices are the same.
Abstract
The operating cost of a demand responsive transit (DRT) system strictly depends on the quality of service that it offers to its users. An operating agency seeks to minimize operating costs while maintaining the quality of service while users experience costs associated with scheduling, waiting, and traveling within the system. In this paper, an analytical model is employed to approximate the agency's operating cost for running a DRT system with dynamic demand and the total generalized cost that users experience as a result of the operating decisions. The approach makes use of Vickrey's (1969) congestion theory to model the dynamics of the DRT system in the equilibrium condition and approximate the generalized cost for users when the operating capacity is inadequate to serve the time-dependent demand over the peak period without excess delay. The efficiency of the DRT system can be improved by optimizing one of three parameters that define the agency's operating decision: (1) the operating capacity of the system, (2) the number of passengers that have requested a pick-up and are awaiting service, and (3) the distribution of requested times for service from the DRT system. A schedule management strategy and dynamic pricing strategies are presented that can be implemented to manage demand and reduce the total cost of the DRT system by keeping the number of waiting requests optimized over the peak period. In the end, proposed optimization strategies are compared using a numerical example.
Introduction
Demand responsive transit (DRT) systems are a class of transit services in which a fleet of vehicles dynamically changes routes and schedules in order to accommodate demand within a service area. A DRT system naturally has flexibility in providing service, which allows it to adapt to variations in the demand. This property of DRT makes it possible to eliminate the access distance for transit users by providing a curb-to-curb trip. The trade-off is that each user of the system must wait for a vehicle to pick them up and spend time in the system while the transit vehicles divert to pick up and drop off other passengers. The quality of service that DRT provides its users can be improved by reducing the waiting and in-service times of the users, as well as earliness and lateness that they experience in arriving to their destinations.
Improvements in the quality of service also tend to raise the operating cost of the service. From the agency's point of view, however, the high operating cost should be justified by the benefits for users; otherwise, the agency's operating cost will be reduced at the expense of a decline in the quality of the service. The resulting inconvenience to the users due to inadequacy of the service quality (e.g., delay in both pickup and service, and lack of punctuality reflected in the earliness or lateness of arrival) contributes to the total costs that users experience in order to use the service. The inherent tradeoff between the quality of the DRT service and its associated operating cost suggests that costs to the agency and users should be balanced through the design and management of the system. As a result, the optimal balance can be introduced as a condition of the system in which the total cost of the agency and users is minimized.
Conventional paratransit services, such as those in compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 to provide complementary transit service for people with disability, typically schedule trips for users in the order that they are requested. By limiting the number of requests per time that can be booked, the operator limits the scheduled demand for trips to the capacity of the system. There are two problems with the current operating strategy. First, service preference is given to users who know their schedule well enough in advance that they can reserve a booking early, while later requests may be forced to incur greater deviations from their preferred schedule due to lack of availability in peak periods. Second, ADA requires that complementary paratransit for people with disability schedule a pick up within one hour of the initial requested pick-up time, so very large peaks in demand give operators no choice but to run more vehicles and employ more drivers.
This paper presents a model and optimization approach for DRT service that is used to minimize the total cost to the agency and users combined. An analytical model for DRT systems based on Rahimi et al. (2014) and Daganzo (1978) is employed to approximate the components of the operating cost of the DRT system: fleet size, total vehicle hours traveled (VHT), and total vehicle miles traveled (VMT) in the network. Given the service area of the DRT system, these components of the agency cost can be approximated as functions of the number of waiting passengers that have requested service and the maximum rate that operators can serve passengers per time (i.e., operating capacity). The total operating cost for the agency can be estimated as a linear combination of these components (Rahimi et al., 2014).
In addition to the expenses to the agency for running the service, it is also necessary to account for the costs that users endure to use the service. To this end, Vickrey's (1969) congestion theory is adapted to approximate the costs that the DRT users experience for the service when the operating capacity of the system is inadequate to meet the demand. In this case, the user equilibrium can be conceived as the result of competition between DRT users who are each minimizing their own travel costs, which include the waiting time to be picked up, the traveling time in the vehicle, and the cost for arriving earlier or later than preferred. In an equilibrium condition, no one has an incentive to change his or her own travel time. However, it is still possible to reduce the total costs of the system by optimizing the DRT operations and managing the temporal distribution of demand. The capacity of the service and the number of passengers awaiting pick-up are decision variables that can be maintained at optimal levels over time to minimize the total cost of the system. Since demand tends to peak during certain times of the day, an effective demand management strategy that can spread the demand uniformly over time has a key role in optimizing the operations of a DRT system.
The objective of this paper is to model the dynamics of DRT scheduling and operations and to identify a management strategy to incentivize users to adapt their request times to be more uniform over time. A dynamic pricing policy can be implemented as an effective strategy to improve the efficiency of the DRT system by forming a uniform distribution of the demand and avoiding the underutilization of the optimal capacity during off-peak times. As a result, the total cost of the agency and users can be minimized by choosing optimal values for the system capacity and the number of waiting requests. Meanwhile an appropriate demand management strategy that can make the demand uniform is required to keep the system optimized over time.
The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 reviews the literature in this discipline. The modeling tools that are adapted in this paper to approximate the costs for the agency and users of the DRT service are presented in Section 3. Then in Section 4, the system optimum problem is formulated to minimize the total cost of the agency and users in three possible scenarios: optimizing the operating capacity of the service, optimizing the number of waiting requests, and optimizing both together. In these scenarios, the system optimum problem also has an analytical solution when the distribution of the wished request time is known. Section 5 presents the demand management strategies that can keep the number of requests awaiting service constantly optimized over time. Section 6 provides a numerical example of a DRT system and an optimal pricing strategy as well as a sensitivity analysis on the results. Finally, the conclusions of the study are summarized.
Access through your organization
Check access to the full text by signing in through your organization.

Section snippets
Literature survey
There are many variables that have a direct or indirect influence on the performance of DRT services. These factors can be classified in three groups: network, operation, and demand characteristics. A large body of research uses different approaches to study the effects of these factors on the performance of the service. These approaches can be classified generally into two groups: simulations and approximate mathematical methods.
Simulation is the appropriate method where the goal is to achieve 
Modeling tools
Agencies possess limited equipment, crews, and facilities with which to operate DRT services, and the costs of acquiring additional resources can be very expensive so agencies have an incentive to use their resources as efficiently as possible. On the other hand, when the demand rate exceeds the operating capacity of the system, users must to tolerate higher delay, in-service travel time, earliness, and lateness due to lack of adequate capacity in the system. To improve the quality of the
System optimum
The inherent tradeoff between the cost and quality of the DRT service necessitates holding a balance between the agency and user costs. The optimal balance between the operation cost and quality of the service can be determined by minimizing the total cost for the agency and users. In this objective function, the VOT that we consider for the users reflects the importance of the quality of the service for users relative to the cost of operations. The monetary operating cost for the agency can be 
Demand management strategies
As explained in the previous section, the underlying assumption in optimizing the number of requests awaiting service in the peak period is that that demand can be distributed uniformly across the period. However, the distribution of the demand in the equilibrium condition will naturally tend to be stepwise in the peak period, which is the cumulative result of the rational behavior of the individual users minimizing their own costs. Accordingly, demand management strategies that can make the
Numerical example
To provide a numerical illustration of this problem, in this section we employ the proposed analytical model to optimize different operating strategies for a DRT service in different optimization scenarios. This DRT system is assumed to provide a curb-to-curb service for its users in an area of 
 mi2 with a network travel parameter of 
, and a fixed peak demand of 
 requests. It is assumed that the fixed demand is uniformly distributed over 3 hours of the peak period with a fixed
Conclusions
The inherent trade-off between the operating cost and the quality of service of a DRT system necessitates optimizing the operations to balance them. In this paper, an analytical model based on Daganzo (1978) is employed to approximate fleet size, VHT, and VMT of the DRT system. Accordingly, the operating cost for the agency is estimated as a linear combination of these components. The users are also subjected to costs of using the service. When the operating capacity of the system is inadequate 